as a asian girl being brought up in the
uk
you know you were never allowed to have
a boyfriend so
it comes to age when you're like 24 25
and everyone's like
why are you not married if you're
looking to get married
ideally we'd want to be indian to start
off with
and then probably gujarati and then if
it works out then it's patel
did your parents ever say that no it was
my like just your and
just my understanding of it for all
asian families i think
regardless your religion getting married
is like a massive
social family responsibility that you
have to kind of fulfill
i think it was just a bit of a shock for
my parents they didn't expect me to get
married to an english guy
it was very um yeah it's quite a
stressful time
i got married when i was 21 years old it
was a traditional hindu
wedding i had 1400 people at my wedding
in hinduism it's an arranged marriages
people just check the families and
everything is fine so we
within 40 days we got engaged and we got
married there's a common saying that the
divine was lonely
and so he split himself in half the
purpose of life is almost to find
that other half the other half of your
soul
we definitely did ask our families
opinions and
what they wanted but i think we always
had the final say in what we want and i
think that was quite different
to previous generations
navi and curran met in may 2017.
navi doesn't follow religion just
because you have to follow region she
has this
thing of questioning but i'm different
in that way i just follow religion
because my parents told me this is how
it's done
navi can be a really modern hindu
my parents are really traditional in
this i'm kind of in the middle
in our culture the whole arranged
marriage is still an idea that's still
there i mean
we lots of people marry for love now so
we call them love marriages
um but with their arrangement and
marriage traditionally we have our
horoscopes and they're usually like
matched for compatibility and usually a
percentage comes out of it
thankfully we had a love marriage we
didn't actually have to
have our horoscopes matched because we
already had compatibility
although some family members did want to
do that we kind of was like no
no because there's a lot of people that
don't get married purely on the basis
that their horoscopes don't match
in 2019 they decided to marry with a
traditional sri lankan tamil ceremony
[Music]
with the hindu wedding ceremony it's the
only time in life that you are elevated
to god's status
so even the priest sits on the floor um
you
sit on a platform so when the priest
ties the string on your hand
that kind of symbolizes that you've been
elevated to a god's status
we have a ganesha puja first
with all beginnings we pray to lord
ganesha lord that starts things off
[Music]
traditionally the bride and groom don't
see each other in the days leading up to
the wedding
the first time i'm going to see her
she's going to be like walking onto the
stage
with all the bridal stuff
[Music]
i think with the hindu ceremony there's
like two key elements
the first one in tamil it's called kanye
dharnam but it's a universally hindu
thing that all hindu weddings do
it essentially means the giving way of
the daughter
so the dad will hold your hand
and basically say all this years i've
looked after you so well
[Music]
my dad's not here my uncle did that role
for me which was really nice
and now he takes the hand off the the
groom and say now it's your
time to look after my precious daughter
do you agree to look after her
and then the green responds saying yes
[Music]
essentially it's quite similar to
english weddings where a dad gives a
daughter away you know walking down the
aisle to give
your daughter to the husband
when i come into the ceremony i wear a
sari that's given by my family
and then you give me a sari to wear
and i go back and change and come back
in that sorry
so red is kind of seen as a very
auspicious color and it's the color that
most brides choose the second sari is
usually a red one
[Music]
for me the like the most significant
moment is when the
atari is basically a gold blessed
pendant and it kind of represents your
husband's life
the husband puts it on you and i
remember that moment
really vividly
everyone's got their flowers and like
you know flowers is like confetti ready
to like throw it at you as well
[Music]
and they're just waiting for karen to
come forward and like put it over my
neck
[Applause]
everyone's so happy because i think it's
like a bad omen or bad sign if people
take too long
tying the talib so there's this element
of like you need to do it fast otherwise
it's not going to be good
having that you know necklace tied
around me in that moment where
everyone's like you know cheering for
you i thought oh wow
i'm i'm your wife
hinduism is a very strong part of my
identity
it's something i hold on to very dearly
and it wasn't
until the wedding i realized that oh wow
this is so powerful i've realized
there's like the history behind it
it's so rich in its culture it's very
very much
down to you to interpret it in your own
way
and i think that's why i love being a
hindu